- Synced and corrected by Firefly -
- www.addic7ed.com -
- I won't be long.
- Come, Lavinia!
Faster! Faster!
Slow down! Slow down.
I wish you weren't moving to Paris.
I know, my love, but you have
important duties to uphold here.
You'll be young Master Bidlow
in my absence.
- The last Bidlow, more like.
- Oh, darling, please don't be morose.
- Not right before I leave.
- But, Lavinia,
you're bound to get married now.
And once you are,
it'll just be me. Won't it?
Are you going to show me
this marvelous thing
that you've made or not?
Come on!
They're passerines. Mostly corvids.
But I was lucky to find one specimen
with its alternate plumage intact.
Do you see how the contour feathers
grow downwards in order to...
Vinnie?
Is something the matter?
How did you come by all of these?
I...
I didn't hurt them, Vinnie!
I found them, and I simply...
Have I done something wrong?
Help me!
Help!
Is there anybody there?
Augie!
Lavinia.
Oh! Help me, my darling.
Just stay... stay still. Stay still.
Uh...
Alright. We're gonna lift you, alright?
That's it. Legs.
That's it. You're alright.
You're alright.
Um... I'm gonna get your chair.
Penance!
- Penance!
- I'm alright, but I have to go
gentle now or the whole thing
will fall down on us. Oh...
Well, here goes a little bit of nothing.
It needed me, Pen, and I... Fuck!
Penance, it came this way!
Lord Massen. You need to go down.
Something's changed.
The knocking, sir, it won't stop.
Maybe she was frightened
by the earthquake.
Enough!
Lord Massen! Please!
Your mother was spirited, too.
It's a pity... you never knew her.
But at least she was... spared this.
If I were to let you leave...
I know what fearful men are capable of.
A lone aberration like you...
could never survive outside these walls.
Lillie.
I...
Ruby!
I need some more cocaine!
What in the name of
all-holy fuck practice
have you people been doing all day?
Ruby!
My lord.
Why am I looking at a broken
lavatory of a hallway?
Is nothing prepared?
Where's my Olympian splendor?
My gilded tendrils of light?
- There is a concern...
- There is not.
that we won't be ready...
- You will be.
- ... by tonight.
The night of the party? Excellent.
There's been an earthquake, Lord Swann.
Moses lived through 10 plagues! Ten!
And a stutter!
But still, he got to work!
He parted the Red fucking Sea
with nothing
but a robe and a stick.
You people have powers, abilities!
Use them!
Isn't there any one of you who
can just float that into place?
And you, plastering person!
You intend for the ferrymen
to collapse into the river?
At least put some plaster on the
more ghastly cracks down there.
It doesn't have to be real.
It just needs to look pretty.
Surely, you can understand that.
Well, the quake, sir.
The foundations are damaged.
That is the entire point!
This is a sybaritic festival!
Tonight, there will be no foundation!
Destiny cannot wait!
Much more of that.
They telephoned again.
This morning. Twice yesterday.
It's your father. He's
asking for you, sir.
And in five minutes, he'll be asking
for his dear departed
cocker spaniel Ruediger.
Beat the crap out of that
poor creature as well.
But he's dying, sir.
Are you still here?
Look, I'll go, alright?
- Tomorrow.
- But they say tomorrow will be too...
Tomorrow, we can all return
to our miserable realities!
But tonight, please help me
forget all about it.
Gods will be men.
Men will be gods, Ruby.
And each will be transformed
by a taste of the other's lives.
Destiny cannot wait.
Oh, fuck!
Who is it?
It's me.
Don't have many visitors then?
- Is that everything?
- Just about.
I saw you, you know.
In the cell with her.
Just before she broke out.
- New Super's sharper than he looks.
- New Super is a prick.
He's gunning for you.
Talking about dismissal
unless you show your face.
I don't understand.
You're just gonna throw away
a whole career for what?
You mustn't carry that
around with you, Frank.
- You know about Lord Massen?
- Massen?
One of them ministers
without portfolio, ain't he?
Whispering in everyone's ear.
I need a way in.
Who's he friends with? Who's he fucking?
Do you think I've got the faintest idea
what side of the bed someone
like Lord Massen sleeps on?
Oh, yeah. Sorry. That's right.
He comes down to Nag's
every Thursday for a pint, don't he?
No. You serious?
He had Mary killed? Why would
he do something like that?
- I don't know. I'm gonna find out.
- No, you ain't.
You'll get nothing but dead ends.
It's a fixed fuckin' order!
You know that!
One way or another,
I will see him stretch for what he done.
I owe her that at least.
What the hell?
Lucy?
You...
too late... for all that.
What are you doin' down here?
You still think you know everything.
I hated myself... for so long.
I see it in you, too.
Who brought you down here, Lucy?
Lucy. Don't.
It... It sang to me, True.
Gentler than Mary, even.
Can you imagine...
singing... with such...
glory...
echoing through every...
hard and angry part of me?
Right through all of the...
goddamned loneliness.
I don't understand.
She was down here with the Galanthi.
I think she broke it out.
Did she hurt it?
Penance, you'll want that, I think.
Time to go.
- Well, we have to bury her.
- She won't hold it against us.
I might!
Someone told Lucy about the Galanthi
because they wanted her to destroy it.
- Who? Hague?
- I don't know,
but I have to find it
before it's too late.
Where to then?
No way out but through.
- It's not much further.
- What is?
We can take it all the way out.
Is this... for the Galanthi?
What is a... "galanthi"?
Someone I know, s-someone...
I trust...
they told me that maybe...
- maybe it was hope.
- Hope?
I expected better of
a scientist like Ms. Adair.
It wasn't Ms. Adair. It was Mrs. True.
Pining after two Touched women?
I hope this isn't becoming a fetish.
Am I not allowed friendship
under your purview,
Lavinia? For God's sake.
Be it Hugo or Ms. Adair or...
anyone who fails to live up
to your draconian expectation...
We almost died, Vinnie.
Don't you think we could
take this moment,
th-this opportunity to just
be honest with one another?
I-I saw you w-with the...
with the Touched woman. I-I...
I saw what you did.
I just need you to tell me why.
Regardless of what you
have been told by Mrs. True,
that creature is our enemy.
But, y-y-you... you support the Touched!
Well, then...
I refuse to take one more step with you
if you... if you... don't tell me
what is going on down here
w-with this enemy!
Augustus, how did you know I was here?
Well, I mean... As-as-as diffi...
As difficult to hear... um, I was...
I thought we were being
honest with each other.
Now get out of my way.
- Lavinia...
- Get out of my way!
You'll hurt yourself! Lavinia!
Shit. You alright? Um...
S-stay there. Stay there.
Stay there. Uh...
Move your arm.
It's alright. It's alright.
Come on. Come on.
Careful with your head.
Désirée is here because
it's time we had it out.
Any objections, you can go.
Good. Now, tell us again
exactly what that Bidlow
woman said to Amalia.
"No one in or out until
this unrest is settled,
or I'll be forced to
withdraw my patronage".
Which says to me Ms. Bidlow's guards
aren't here to protect us.
They're here to protect her.
How do you mean?
Her investment, her reputation.
So, Amalia laying out Bidlow's guards
like a couple of flapjacks
is probably bad for us.
Definitely not good.
Where will we go if
we lose the orphanage?
Well, it seems to me
that she's left you all
at your most vulnerable hour.
It wasn't Amalia who
burned our house down.
She's got her mission,
but the Purists are our real enemy.
Any moment now, they will be
swarming these doors and...
- we're not ready.
- They're growing in numbers.
Aneel told me.
He says everyone out there
blames us for the earthquakes.
They say that Maladie called down
some dark Touched magic when she hung.
Well, they're right.
Mrs. True's creature
is responsible, isn't it?
All it seems to be doing
is causing chaos.
Had enough eyes on me as it was.
Well, Amalia told us the Galanthi
is from her future,
so she can deal with it.
What's coming for us is bigger
than some angry mob.
Soon, the Purists won't just be
the men on the streets,
but they'll be the men
in the police stations
and the men in the courtrooms!
Fear of the Touched will become
just part of the system.
There weren't no system for me
and Nigey when we needed it.
Yeah, and that's why
we need to change things.
How we gonna change anything
when we're stuck inside here?
- We need to wait for Amalia...
- Oh no, we are done
waiting for Amalia to save us.
It's time to do things our own way.
And what do we benefit?
Becoming foot soldiers
in this army of yours?
Guns. More nicker than you can find
in the pages of your good book,
for a start.
I know. I know about your principles.
It's okay. Singing your
little songs on the street,
daubing your little picture
on the walls.
Now if your idea of a campaign
is a few kids with crayons...
We've given lives in battle.
She means her friend,
the girl that got killed.
She don't mean no harm. Do you, Bess?
Ever heard of King Canute?
Learned about him at the schoolhouse.
Stupid old duffer.
Sat there shoutin' at the sea
till it drowned him.
Oi. She yours?
- Get back, Bess.
- And there's you.
Asking for our lives
while you walk around
with the stink of your
Touched pet on you.
A foul musk.
You ought to be ashamed.
Should I?
- She's only a kid.
- I ain't afraid.
If anyone,
man, woman, or girl,
have any doubts about
where my loyalties lie,
step forward.
Yeah, what I thought.
I'll get my army
and you get your money and your guns.
Never was a fairer match made
in all of London town.
And you. Just a little tadpole,
but your mouth got some bite.
You oughta watch your backs
with that one, boys.
Why must you always be this way?
It's...
My whole life, I've just
tried to please you.
I've just... just...
I've done everything as you've asked.
W-why you keep me at a distance?
Because you can't help me.
Y-you let somebody help you!
Why couldn't it have been me?
Am I so lacking in your...
You are not fit to carry
the Bidlow name!
I did it all for you, Augie.
Can't you see?
The...
Galanthi,
what it did to us.
Hurt you, Augie.
I can't help but...
hate it for what it did to you.
You know.
I know every hair on your head.
I know every shadow in your eye.
I taste the very air
before you breathe it.
Long before there was a word for it...
I knew you were Touched.
I watched when you tried
to play it for confused bumbling.
Many people were
fooled by it, but not me.
S... I-I was...
I was never trying to fool you.
When the reports of the Touched
had become too numerous to ignore,
I knew y-you had some part in it.
Can you imagine, Augie,
how that pained me?
That I knew my brother, my everything,
was a danger?
What, you think... You think
because I'm Touched,
I'm somewhat... What...
What, I'm a... I'm a...
I'm a danger to society?
No!
The creature didn't make you dangerous.
It simply amplified
what you already were.
I see.
I'm going to try and start the boiler.
Excuse me. You can't go in there! Sir!
Frank?
What an entirely unexpected surprise.
No riverbank summons today, then?
Or perhaps you're here to
see the Ferryman himself.
What the fuck are you doin'?
Preparing.
What is that?
Is that milk?
Yes, well,
I wouldn't expect you to understand
the rigors of performance.
Or art, for that matter.
Lord Massen.
He one of yours?
Be coming to your little
shindig tonight?
- No.
- Because your families,
they go way back, don't they?
Ain't you gone peacock
shooting together,
or ridin' around on stags?
You got the wrong Swann, Frank.
Don't look at me.
Is everything alright?
No, I ain't come here for that.
No.
No, of course not.
Well, uh, I can't give you Massen.
Closing ranks, eh?
- That's what all you lot do sooner or later.
- Get out.
The fixed fuckin' order.
God forbid you should ever
just come to see me, Frank.
You've had a telegram.
Made her favorite.
Always calms her down.
We must put an end to this madness now.
But, sir...
We can't.
End it.
Feels wrong to have
left her there all alone.
I told you before, you have
to focus on something else.
Don't give in to it.
What?
Sentiment. A good soldier
never looks back.
She must have been desperate
to have tried to kill the Galanthi.
Why would it let her break it out?
Can't say I've given much thought to...
Play with me.
Play with me!
Bet the road rose up
to meet you on that one.
Nothing makes any...
goddamned gray one...
He's going to help.
Shut up and ship out.
A friend's the one you trust.
Fucking sim!
I just want it to be over.
There's mercy aplenty for
every sin under God's sun,
save the blasphemy of giving up.
Please don't be dancin'
with the devil of despair.
Well, maybe the devil
shouldn't have fuckin' asked.
Come on, that's it!
Go again!
Faster, alright?
Faster...
Good. Good.
Good...
You're training 'em how to fight?
Put some of these turns to use.
Show them what we're capable of.
The people out there
already fear us, Annie.
- Good.
- No, not good.
This kind of display is only gonna drive
more of the people to the Purists.
So what, we just lock our doors
and pray that no one burns us down?
You said it yourself, Horatio.
Our world is on fire.
Why won't you stand up and
use what you've been given?
Quick sharp, little man, it's out!
It's out, and we must oblige it.
Our Sunday best, eh?
Oh, what's a bit of lace to do
with bags of flesh and bone?
Eh? Still,
we want to look our best, don't we?
I've been waiting so
patiently all this time.
What are we doing?
What are we doing?!
What am I digging for?
Why has the rat stopped scrabbling?
Make haste! Make haste!
As it happens...
a pack of rabid dogs
has caught your nasty scent!
There lies your only chance!
Dig, dig, dig!
It's coming.
It's coming! Hey, it's there. It's...
Oh, it stings, Angel!
It's stuck!
Oh...
It's almost... It's clawing.
Scraping...
Sound familiar?
Listen to it.
Chicken-hearted thing.
Screamin' and twistin'. Such suffering.
No. I hear nothing. Nothing. Noth...
And you call yourself a man of science?
A creator, eh?
Oh, it's only been two days, love.
According to my calculations,
we've got at least 670 to go
before I let you sleep.
This accumulation of anguish is dear,
very dear to me.
I will defend it until I won't.
Until I don't.
- Are you finished yet?
- Near enough.
Have you used kindling?
- What... What kindling?
- Heaven's sake!
Augie, it is the basic principle
of operating a st...
What the hell do you know
about the basic principle
of the operation of a steam engine?
Do you know, Lavinia?
I-I think it's high time
you started answering
some of my questions for a change.
A-about the bodies.
- What bodies?
- The b... The bodies. The ones...
The ones in the cave. The... God,
they had such horrible scars.
- God knows what you've done to them.
- Augustus...
No, no, no, no, no!
Lavinia, I will, I will finish my
thought, thank you very much.
Look, it just...
It-it seems to me that...
you're the one that we
should be worried about.
M-maybe...
I'm the one...
who should be taking responsibility
for you!
You're acting strangely, Augie.
But, s-strange can...
can be wondrous!
It can be beautiful. It's glorious.
Of course, you don't know
anything about that.
Everything I have done
has been done in the name of humanity.
Sorry...
D-do you alone get to dictate
who's included in this
version of humanity?
'Cause based on what I saw today,
you've done far more to
compromise the Bidlow name
than I ever have!
You were shouting,
"Kill it. Kill it, kill it!" I...
I...
Never in my life have I done
anything to hurt anyone.
- Anybody!
- Are you serious?
But that was an accident.
An accident?
Mm-hmm.
Is that what you truly believe?
I was a child!
You pushed me!
- No. No. Mm-mmm.
- You did.
And then, you watched me fall!
And now, you still refuse to
acknowledge your culpability.
And you can't see what...
I think, Lavinia...
you fail to give yourself
the credit that you deserve.
You shape your own life.
It... it's time I shape mine.
Augustus!
I've had enough of your theatrics! Stop!
That's enough.
That'll have to do, old chap.
Ruby, If you say one more thing
about my goddamn father...
I'm afraid it's too
late, sir. He's gone.
What shall I tell them?
Let us call down the gods, Ruby.
Lord Swann... I mean, Your Grace.
Welcome one,
welcome all.
Tonight, I am but your humble
and lowly steward,
conducting you from the shores of...
inert, quotidian languor
to one better suited
to the divine.
Welcome to Mount Olympus.
Your Saturnalia awaits.
Hail, Saturnalia!
Ah...
Each strike, closer to God.
Don't fret, pet. Promise a big
wet kiss when I'm back.
Keep him warm while I'm gone, will ya?
We've been walkin' for hours.
Maybe we should head home, have
a look through the spectralacle
and try and track the Galanthi that way.
Home? The orphanage is
a stopgap, not a home.
No, Amalia.
That might have been true
when we first started,
but it's not the case now.
Didn't Mary's song show you that
beyond a whisper of a doubt?
And now, Mary's dead. And Lucy's dead.
My God, don't you know better
than to get attached?
I've lived in countless homes,
and I lost every single one of them.
Can barely remember the one
I grew up in, let alone...
What in God's Heaven...
Oh, you.
The two-faced woman
and her pretty little finger poppet.
- Are you real?
Are you here? 'Cause I am.
Always turning up
where you're not wanted.
You're alive?
Heard you tried to save
my neck from stretchin'.
Did you imagine we'd be friends?
Brush each other's hair in the mornings?
A hundred times, mine.
Nice and shiny.
Bet she tried to stop you, didn't she?
Bet she tried to tell you Maladie
deserved to go limp like a dolly,
but she doesn't learn, you see?
Doesn't listen. She can't hear.
Her head's empty. Empty.
Empty.
What do you want to teach me?
You don't know what I fuckin' want.
What would I want with her, eh?
She's a lost one, isn't she?
She can't even hear it.
Hear what?
We were talking. Never could
abide rudeness. You?
Th-there's a time and a place.
Exactly. This is the time, the place
for what I should have done
the first time he mocked me.
With that know-nothing nightingale Mary.
Got to thinkin', maybe
I'm faulting the angels
for the sin of their maker,
when he's the one should
go first, don't you think?
Isn't that fairest of all?
K-k-kill th-their maker?
Such a lot of hummin'
for such a little craven.
It's been years and years.
I can't wait to get out.
But he makes hum.
You can hear the Galanthi.
You know where it is, don't you?
You've always known.
Think you're so clever,
but I know you aren't.
Take a good look at that face, girlie.
You won't be seeing it much longer.
- Not after she's gone and left you.
- Gone?
My heart pangs, too.
My heart and my lungs and my
cunt and my guts and my brain.
All of them are thrum-a-drum.
Bang, bang, loud and soft,
and loud again, enough!
Who you gonna choose, eh?
Who you gonna choose?
I've made my choice. La.
- What does she mean "gone", Amalia?
- Penance, please.
- We have to go now.
- So you save the Galanthi.
Won't it want to take you home?
Where is that?
When is that?
And you'll go, won't you?
Of course, you will.
You must.
What are you doing?
No, we stay together.
I'm no soldier.
I'll only get in the way.
Penance, please!
The Galanthi needs you.
The world needs you.
It's very... very hot.
As it happens...
your fever's only getting worse.
My lady said to keep you warm,
so warm I'll be keeping you warm.
She's got special plans for you.
Gone to make a mockery
of their disrespect.
Should aim for the heart of it.
From little girls to powerful lords...
... of us all!
Is they maladies?
♪ Maladie! ♪
♪ And make Maladies of... ♪
You really don't learn.
Sure you don't wanna
play with me? Eh? No?
How about we make a wager?
I'm not doing this.
Do you think
God will beg at my feet for mercy,
or meet the end with his head held high?
- Ah!
- I'll even give you a head start.
I'm not going to hurt you.
Far too late for that.
Should we call Penance?
See what she's up to?
That one understands
the meaning of friendship.
Sort of wish we met sooner.
Do you think she misses us? Eh?
- Synced and corrected by Firefly -
- www.addic7ed.com -